[CUBRIDQA-853]add shell_heavy guide. (#567)
CUBRID/cubrid-testtools: doc/shell_heavy_guide.md

# 1. Test Objective
Shel_heavy test is a part of the shell test. The test cases that require big disk size or big memory or with heavy workload are categorized as shell_heavy.

> # 2. Deploy Regression Test Environment

Reviewer: Hope that CUBRID developers can get guide to execute shell_heavy locally instead of regression deployment.

Author: I've added Execute shell_heavy Test.

    ```
    $ cd ~
    $ git clone https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases-private-ex.git
    $ ls ~/cubrid-testcases-private-ex/
    shell  shell_heavy
    $ ls ~/cubrid-testcases-private-ex/shell_heavy/
    _01_cursor_holdability      _06_issues        bug_bts_13188    bug_bts_17504  bug_bts_5359  bug_xdbms48  cbrd_21070  config
    _02_group_and_async_commit  _09_64bit         bug_bts_14738_1  bug_bts_17550  bug_bts_5868  cbrd_20591   cbrd_21119  issue_5765_timezone_support
    _04_misc                    _26_apricot_qa    bug_bts_14738_2  bug_bts_17599  bug_bts_6995  cbrd_21003   cbrd_21186
    _05_addition                _27_aprium_qa     bug_bts_14894    bug_bts_20481  bug_bts_7233  cbrd_21020   cbrd_21361
    _05_multitbl_query_01       _29_features_920  bug_bts_14980    bug_bts_5188   bug_bts_7313  cbrd_21036   cbrd_21362
    _05_multitbl_query_02       bug_bts_10295     bug_bts_17460    bug_bts_5349   bug_bts_8675  cbrd_21049   cbrd_21378
    ```
4. Install CUBRID
    ```
    run_cubrid_install http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8368-b85a234/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8368-b85a234-Linux.x86_64.sh
    ```
# 3. Regression Tests

> We perform shell_heavy test for every CI builds and perform shell_heavy code coverage test for monthly. You can find the settings from http://10.113.153.154:10086/qaresult/job/job.conf   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We perform shell_heavy test for every CI builds and perform shell_heavy code coverage test for monthly. You can find the settings from http://qahome.cubrid.org/qaresult/job/job.conf   
```

    ```

### Verify code coverage testing result
Go to QA homepage and find the 'code coverage' node in the left area, click the link of latest result.  
![cov1](./shell_heavy_image/cov1.png)  
Click the shell_heavy link.  
![cov2](./shell_heavy_image/cov2.png)  
There is a coverage rate of lines. Its coverage rate of lines is usually in 41.7%~42%. You can see the expected rate from http://jira.cubrid.org/browse/CUBRIDQA-851.  
![cov3](./shell_heavy_image/cov3.png)

## 3.4 Report issues
Here are the issues that you can refer to http://jira.cubrid.org/browse/CBRD-22880.
Please read [Issue Reporting Guide for QA](http://jira.cubrid.org/browse/CUBRIDQA-1?focusedCommentId=4739243&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-4739243), [Template for Crash Issues](http://jira.cubrid.org/browse/CUBRIDQA-1?focusedCommentId=4739244&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-4739244), and [How to Report Regression Crash Issues](http://jira.cubrid.org/browse/CUBRIDQA-1?focusedCommentId=4739245&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-4739245) to report issues.

# 4. Shell_heavy Test Case

> The current isolation test case is located in the https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases-private-ex/tree/develop/shell_heavy repository. The directory structure, naming rule, and convention rules of shell_heavy test case are definitely same as that of shell and shell_long test cases. Please refer to [8. shell case standards](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/a066d8861858fa49885c77796515890b3f35b062/CTP/doc/shell/shell_guide.md#8-shell-case-standards) or [5. Test Case Specification](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/fbc476b6b76e8a93fe7af21ce726bb29c14380b5/doc/shell_long/README.md#5test-case-specification) to write test case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current shell_heavy test case is located in the https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases-private-ex/tree/develop/shell_heavy repository. The directory structure, naming rule, and convention rules of shell_heavy test case are definitely same as that of shell and shell_long test cases. Please refer to [8. shell case standards](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/a066d8861858fa49885c77796515890b3f35b062/CTP/doc/shell/shell_guide.md#8-shell-case-standards) or [5. Test Case Specification](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/fbc476b6b76e8a93fe7af21ce726bb29c14380b5/doc/shell_long/README.md#5test-case-specification) to write test case.
```

    If there is no corresponding template config file, it will use the `CTP/conf/shell_template.conf` file.   
    If none of these configuration files exist, the test will end with error like `[SHELL] ERROR: Not found configuration file`.
3. Start Consumer   
    Create a script `$HOME/start_test.sh` like below.
    ```
    $ cat ~/start_test.sh
    nohup start_consumer.sh -q QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SHELL_HEAVY_LINUX -exec run_shell &
    ```
    In the current daily qa test, the `shell_heavy`, `shell_long`, and `RQG` tests are using the same test machines, so we use one controllar to listen to the three test messages. The `start_test.sh` is like below in the daily qa test environment. 
    ```
    nohup start_consumer.sh -q QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SHELL_HEAVY_LINUX,QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_RQG,QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_shell_heavy_LINUX -exec run_shell,run_shell,run_shell  &
    ```
    Start Consumer   
    ```
    $ cd ~
    $ sh start_test.sh
    ```
    Note: If you want to stop listening, execute `stop_consumer.sh`.

## 3.3 On Test Nodes
1. Install CTP   

> Please refer to the guide to [install CTP in Linux platform](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#1-install-ctp-in-linux-platform) on each test node.

Reviewer: Update link with https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#3-install-ctp-as-regression-test-platform

# 1. Test Objective

> `shel_heavy` test is a kind of the shell test. The test cases that require big disk size or big memory or with heavy workload are categorized as shell_heavy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`shel_heavy` test is a kind of the shell test. The test cases that require large disk space or large memory or with heavy workload are categorized as shell_heavy.
```

    ```

## 2.2 Checkout shell_heavy Test Cases   
The shell_heavy test cases are in the https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases-private-ex repository.  
```
$ cd ~
$ git clone https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases-private-ex.git
$ ls ~/cubrid-testcases-private-ex/
shell  shell_heavy
```
```
$ ls ~/cubrid-testcases-private-ex/shell_heavy/
_01_cursor_holdability      _06_issues        bug_bts_13188    bug_bts_17504  bug_bts_5359  bug_xdbms48  cbrd_21070  config
_02_group_and_async_commit  _09_64bit         bug_bts_14738_1  bug_bts_17550  bug_bts_5868  cbrd_20591   cbrd_21119  issue_5765_timezone_support
_04_misc                    _26_apricot_qa    bug_bts_14738_2  bug_bts_17599  bug_bts_6995  cbrd_21003   cbrd_21186
_05_addition                _27_aprium_qa     bug_bts_14894    bug_bts_20481  bug_bts_7233  cbrd_21020   cbrd_21361
_05_multitbl_query_01       _29_features_920  bug_bts_14980    bug_bts_5188   bug_bts_7313  cbrd_21036   cbrd_21362
_05_multitbl_query_02       bug_bts_10295     bug_bts_17460    bug_bts_5349   bug_bts_8675  cbrd_21049   cbrd_21378
```
## 2.3 Quick Start
1. Install CUBRID   

>     ```

Reviewer: Add:
"You may install CUBRID as your way or install via a script file `run_cubrid_install` in CTP".

Author: OK, I've added it.

    Continue Mode: false
    Build Number: 10.2.0.8398-48e1a3c
    ...
    ============= TEST ==================
    [ENV START] instance1
    [ENV START] instance2
    [TESTCASE] cubrid-testcases-private-ex/shell_heavy/_06_issues/_12_1h/bug_bts_6753_1/cases/bug_bts_6753_1.sh EnvId=instance2 [OK]
    [TESTCASE] cubrid-testcases-private-ex/shell_heavy/_06_issues/_12_1h/bug_bts_7075/cases/bug_bts_7075.sh EnvId=instance2 [OK]
    [TESTCASE] cubrid-testcases-private-ex/shell_heavy/_06_issues/_12_1h/bug_bts_8403/cases/bug_bts_8403.sh EnvId=instance2 [OK]
    [ENV STOP] instance2
    [TESTCASE] cubrid-testcases-private-ex/shell_heavy/_06_issues/_12_1h/bug_bts_6683/cases/bug_bts_6683.sh EnvId=instance1 [OK]
    [ENV STOP] instance1
    ============= PRINT SUMMARY ==================
    Test Category:shell
    Total Case:4
    Total Execution Case:4
    Total Success Case:4
    Total Fail Case:0
    Total Skip Case:0

    TEST COMPLETE
    [SHELL] TEST END (Thu Aug 15 20:45:09 KST 2019)
    [SHELL] ELAPSE TIME: 3279 seconds
    [may@func43 ~]$ 
    ```
## 2.5 Execute one test case
If you only want to execute one test case, you can simply execute the test case script.   

> In this case, you need to export an init_path at first.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, you need to export an `init_path` at first.   
```

~/CTP/shell/init_path/run_shell.sh --enable-report --report-cron='0 0 9,13,18 * * ?' --issue="http://jira.cubrid.org/browse/CBRD-xxxx"  --mailto="Someone<email address>" --mailcc="<CUBRIDQA DL email address>" --loop --update-build 
```
Please refer to http://jira.cubrid.org/browse/CUBRIDQA-215 to use it.     

# 3. Deploy Regression Test Environment
## 3.1 Test Machines

No. | role | user | ip | hostname | Tools to deploy
--|--|--|--|--|--
0 | Controller node | rqgcontroller | 192.168.1.99 | func24 | CTP
1 | Test node | shell_heavy | 192.168.1.99 | func24 | CTP, cubrid-testcases-private-ex
2 | Test node | shell_heavy | 192.168.1.100 | func25 | CTP, cubrid-testcases-private-ex
3 | Test node | shell_heavy | 192.168.1.101 | func26 | CTP, cubrid-testcases-private-ex
4 | Test node | shell_heavy | 192.168.1.102 | func27 | CTP, cubrid-testcases-private-ex
5 | Test node | shell_heavy | 192.168.1.103 | func28 | CTP, cubrid-testcases-private-ex

**Controller node** listens to test messages and starts a test when there is a test message. It will distribute test cases to each test node for execution.  
**Test nodes** execute test cases in parallel.

## 3.2 On Controller Node
1. Install CTP   

> Follow the steps in [2.1 Install CTP](#21-install-ctp)   

Author: I've modified it.

    feedback_db_name=qaresu
    feedback_db_user=dba
    feedback_db_pwd=PASSWORD
    ```
    When you need to test shell_heavy_debug, then need to copy `CTP/conf/shell_template_for_shell_heavy.conf` as `CTP/conf/shell_template_for_shell_heavy_debug.conf`.   
    If there is no corresponding template config file, it will uses the `CTP/conf/shell_template.conf` file.   
    If none of these configuration files exist, the test will end with error like `[SHELL] ERROR: Not found configuration file`.
3. Start Consumer   
    Create a script `$HOME/start_test.sh` like below.
    ```
    $ cat ~/start_test.sh
    nohup start_consumer.sh -q QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SHELL_HEAVY_LINUX -exec run_shell &
    ```
    In the current daily qa test, the `shell_heavy`, `shell_long`, and `RQG` tests are using the same test machines, so we use one controllar to listening to the three test messages. The `start_test.sh` is like below in the daily qa test environment. 
    ```
    nohup start_consumer.sh -q QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SHELL_HEAVY_LINUX,QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_RQG,QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_shell_heavy_LINUX -exec run_shell,run_shell,run_shell  &
    ```
    Start Consumer   
    ```
    $ cd ~
    $ sh start_test.sh
    ```

>     Note: If you want to stop listening, execute `sh ~/cubrid_scheduler/stop_consumer.sh`.

Author: I've fix it.
